The President:
Hi, everybody.
In this year of action,
I'm doing everything
I can, with or without
Congress, to expand
opportunity for
more Americans.
This week, I ordered a
review of our nation's
overtime rules, to give
more Americans the chance
to earn the overtime
pay they've worked for.
Here's why this matters.
Our businesses have
created 8.7 million
new jobs over the
past four years.
But in many ways, the
trends that have battered
the middle class for
decades
have grown even starker.
While those at the top are
doing better than ever,
average wages have
barely budged.
Too many Americans are
working harder than ever
just to keep up.
We've got to build an
economy that works
for everybody, not just
a fortunate few.
We know from our history
that our economy grows
best from the middle out,
when growth
is more widely shared.
So we've got to restore
opportunity
for all - the idea that with
hard work and responsibility,
you can get ahead.
Now, for more than 75
years,
the 40-hour workweek and the
overtime protections
that come with it have helped countless
workers climb the ladder of success.
But today, an overtime
exception originally meant
for highly-paid employees
now applies to workers who
earn as little as
$23,660 a year.
It doesn't matter if you
do mostly physical labor,
or if you work 50, 60,
even 70 hours a week.
Your employer may not have
to pay you a single extra dime.
In some cases, this rule
makes it possible for
workers earning a salary
to actually be paid less
than the minimum wage.
And it means that business
owners who treat their
employees fairly can be
undercut
by competitors who don't.
That's not right.
So we're going to update
those overtime rules
to restore that basic
principle that if you have
to work more, you should
be able to earn more.
And we'll do it by
consulting workers
and businesses, and
simplifying the system
so it's easier for everyone.
Americans have spent too
long working more and
getting less in return.
So wherever and whenever
I can make sure that
our economy rewards hard work
and responsibility,
that's what I'm going to do.
Because what every
American wants
is a paycheck that lets them
support their families,
know a little economic
security,
and pass down some hope and
optimism to their kids.
That's something
worth fighting for.
And I'll keep fighting
for it as long as I'm President.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.